let's turn to the US where Pro
Palestinian protests are continuing at
major universities several have called
police in leading to hundreds of arrests
at Colombia University in New York the
center of the demonstrations a student
leader has been barred from the campus
over comments he previously made at the
same time Colombia's Senate which makes
decisions on behalf of students and
teachers has voted to investigate how
the University's leadership handled the
protest nomia ikbal reports from New
York
another day and another encampment has
cropped up in the US in this part of New
York students camped Outside The City
college we should make sure that K
Administration knows that we will not
back down Sarah is Palestinian American
students here and faculty here are not
scared of anything they're willing to
risk their careers they're willing to
risk their schools their personal lives
they know that there's a risk of arrest
they know there is a risk of suspension
but they're willing to stand here and
risk it all for Palestine and for div
Serge once studied here I came here out
of curiosity he describes himself as
very pro-israel I do find it unfair that
certain groups are allowed to occupy
public space block people's access to
those spaces I do find it offensive when
my people are accused of genocide when
we defend ourselves but at the same time
I do recognize freedom of speech freedom
of
assembly this protest is peaceful though
as the crowds grow so does the police
presence tensions between officers and
students have led to an escalation
across many parts of
America from Georgia to Texas you under
arrest for criminal to Ohio and
California there have been hundreds of
arrests with students accused of
trespassing the protests were started
here by Columbia University students
more than a week ago tensions have been
Frau between those who are pro
Palestinian and those who are pro-israel
both accusing each other of hate speech
one student has since apologized for
prior remarks saying zionists don't
deserve to live kione James has now been
barred from the protest site it's much
calmer here today at Columbia University
but the students in the encampment
behind me aren't budging on their
demands they and other students who are
protesting across the country are
calling on their universities to
essentially cut economic and academic
ties with Israeli
institutions all of our demands have to
be achieved in order for us to leave the
encampment we're asking for financial
transparency we're asking for cops off
campus we're asking for amnesty for all
students that have faced disciplinary
charges or have been suspended or
arrested tally is one of those students
I think it was very jarring to be placed
in IN Zip eyeses and held for that long
um but I will also say um as kind of
frustrating and angry and scary as it
was um I was also very proud to be
standing in solidarity with my
peers American campuses have long been
political Battlegrounds the October 7th
attacks in Israel are the latest flash
point with many universities struggling
to reain in the turmoil Nomi rickp BBC
News New York